
Polish translation for MODX Revolution
======================================

This file contains notes for Polish translation for MODX Revolution.

Translation target audience
---------------------------

This translation **is targeted at end users**, as in most cases they are the
content editors and as such are not expected to have any knowledge of English
to fulfill their tasks. With that in mind the effect is more of
_interpretation_ than literal translation.

The goal of the translation is to provide them with MODX Manager interface
localized to the extent required to maintain site content and assets. With
that being said, any administrator users **are expected** to have a working
knowledge of English to be able to administer the MODX installation.

It's a fair and realistic approach, which simplifies life of both those user
groups and doesn't force introducing non-natural lingo for technical terms,
which are used in native form anyway. For the same reason setup files are not
part of translation too (at least ATM).

Convention used
---------------

To ease translation management the following conventions were used:

* All entries have been duplicated and commented out to serve as reference for
  future updates from source. All entries have also been separated by a blank
  line to ease navigation and tracking changes with Git.

* Translation status is indicated by a string appended to end of line:

  - The ` # [info]` means the entry has been translated and verified in
    context, ie.  it was checked within a live MODX Manager session. Optional
    `info` may provide additional information.

  - The ` # ? [info]` means the entry has been translated but is 'fuzzy'. That
    means it is either not 100% correct in terms of grammar or vocabulary
    either could not be verified in context, ie. it could not be checked
    within a live MODX Manager session. An example may be an error message.
    Optional `info` may provide additional information.

  - No mark at end of entry means it has not been translated (yet).

* All 'raw' terms, which are (mainly) MODX structure parts, are used within
  HTML `var` element.

* All paths and literals are used within HTML `tt` or `code` element.

* Other HTML in-line elements, as `strong` or `em`, and especially `abbr` with
  a meaningful `title` attribute, are used when they can help to make the
  message more accessible for target audience.

Contributors
------------

* Grzegorz Adamiak <http://modxcms.com/forums/index.php?action=profile;u=1841>

How to
------

Here's a little help on how to work with lexicon files when updating translation:

* Convert upstream files by duplicating and commenting out all entries:

      #!/bin/bash
      for i in core/lexicon/en/*.php
      do
        sed -i 's/^\$.*$/\n#\0\n\0/' $i
      done

* Find which files contain translated strings:

      #!/bin/bash
      cd core/lexicon/pl
      grep -c '; #' *.php | grep -v ':0' | sed -e 's/:.*//'

* Find which upstream entries have changed:

      #!/bin/bash
      cd core/lexicon/pl
      for f in *.php
      do
        echo $f
        diff <(grep '^#.*' $f) <(grep '^#.*' ../en/$f)
      done

* Find which upstream files contain changed entries:

      #!/bin/bash
      cd core/lexicon/pl
      for f in *.php
      do
        if [[ -n $(diff <(grep '^#.*' $f) <(grep '^#.*' ../en/$f)) ]]
        then
          echo $f
        fi
      done
